Rajesh KC

Java Full Stack Developer 

https://www.linkedin.com/in/rajesh-kc/

Summary:

6+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web and distributed multi-tier applications using Java and J2EE technologies in areas such as professional web development, e-commerce and banking applications. 

Experienced in using Agile Methodology including creating product / Sprint catalogues, active participation in Scrum, Sprint planning and exit meetings.

Familiar with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.

Expertise in Core Java Concepts like OOPs, Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Synchronization, Serialization and De-serialization.

Extensive experience in Java/J2EE technologies such as JDBC, JSP, JSF, Servlets, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, XML, XSD, XSL, JNDI, Web services, Struts, Hibernate, JMS, AJAX.

Good working experience with Java 8 features such as Lambda expressions, Default and Static methods in Interfaces, Streams API, Optional Class and Parallel sort in Arrays.

Experience in implementing the J2EEdesign patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC (Model View-Controller), Adapter, Session Facade, DAO (Data Access Object).

Strong experience in building web application using various Spring Framework features like Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot Thymeleaf, Spring Security, Spring Injection, Spring JPA Crud and Spring Annotations.

Experience in developing applications as Microservices using Spring Boot based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with ESB (Enterprise Service Bus). 

Experienced in producing and consuming SOAP and RESTful Web Services using JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-B APIs and implemented using Jersey, Jackson and Spring REST libraries.

Experienced in using Lombok and Swagger Annotations.

Strong experience in developing Dynamic Single Page Application (SPA) using MEAN (Mongo, Express Angular 5 and Node JS) full stack development tool kit.

Developed dynamic web applications and web services using RAD, Eclipse, JBuilder, JDeveloper, NetBeans and Web Logic workshop.

Responsible for developing web applications using AngularJS/Angular 5 and bootstrap hands-on experience in MVC framework using AngularJS, custom Directives, and Controllers.

Possess good knowledge on document generation using Apache POI and I-Text and dynamic data visualization tools like D3.js and Angular Fusion Charts.

Extensive experience in developing web pages using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 2.0, Angular 4, jQuery 3.0, Bootstrap 4/3, AJAX.

Proficient in handling Web and Application Services in creating Domain, configuring connection pool, JMS, deploying applications on WebLogic, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss and Glassfish

Well versed in querying MySQL 5.0, PostgreSQL 8.0, Oracle 11g R2 DB - Optimizing SQL queries, indexing, PL/SQL procedures and exception handling.

Experienced in handling Version Control Systems like SVN and GIT.

Used Maven as a built automation tool and also used Apache ANT as a Java library.

Experience in de-bugging using implementation of Apache Log4j for logging and Jira, GitLab, Bugzilla for issue-tracking and automation tools like Maven 3.x and Gradle.

Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing and generation of test cases for web applications using Log4J, Mockito and used Jasmine for front end testing and automation framework like Selenium.

Extensive use of Use case model, use case diagrams, activity diagrams, object diagrams, component diagram, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using MS VISIO and RAD 7.5/8.0

Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all Micro Services builds out to the Docker registry.

Used SonarQube plugin in Jenkins pipelines for code quality testing and analysis.

Extensively worked on Docker for different infrastructure setup and end to end automation.

Experience with employment of Apache Kafka, Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.

Experienced in Azure cloud environments like Azure Data Factory, Azure Cosmos DB.







Technical Skills:

SKILLS

TOOLS

Programming Languages

Java/J2EE, Java 8, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++.

Operating Systems

Windows 98, XP, Unix – Solaris 10.0, Linux

Technologies

Java, J2EE

Database(s)

Oracle 9i/10g/11g, PL/SQL, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, MY SQL, MongoDB

Version Control

SVN, GIT

Web components

HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, XML, JSP, Servlet, AJAX, JSON, Bootstrap

Server

Apache Tomcat, JBoss, BEA WebLogic, Web sphere, Jenkins,

Testing Tools

JUnit 4.9, Selenium, Mockito, Log4j.

IDE and Tools

Eclipse, SQL Developer, SOAP UI, Maven, Eclipse4.5, NetBeans

Framework

Web Services, Struts, Hibernate, Junit, spring 4(Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Access, core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate



Professional Summary:

Velocity Tech 										Feb 2023- PresentRole: Software EngineerResponsibilities: 

Working as a senior backend developer. Primarily working with Java 11 and Spring boot for creating and maintaining various microservices.

Responsible for enhancing existing data ingestion, reporting and dashboarding service.

Responsible for end-to-end testing and deployment of the services. 

Have written queries on various databases like postgresql, oracle, mysql and mongodb

Working on admin dashboard and audit hub UI using Angular and Typescript.

Have deployed applications on Linux environments. Have set up entire systems from scratch.

Have a good understanding of Grafana for creating and publishing reusable dashboards.

Have worked on AWS instances as well.

Responsible for designing end to end systems for any new customer requirement.

Mentoring junior team mates.

Environment: Java 11, Spring boot, Spring data JPA, Hibernate, Postgresql, MongoDB, ActiveMQ, Linux, CentOS, Grafana, Quartz, Gitlab, Microservices, Selenium, Tomcat.



FIS Global, Atlanta GA			                                                 		 Sep 2021– Feb 2023

Role: Java Backend Developer 

Responsibilities:

     Used Spring MVC, Spring Boot to decouple business logic and view components.

   ● Developed the Business Logic using Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs)

   ● Used Swagger for API documentation, API testing, API Mocking.

   ● Performed client-side validations using JavaScript.

  ● Implemented Hibernate in the data access object layer to access and update information in the

     Oracle10g Database

  ● Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to

     implement various features and enhancements.

  ● Worked on customer onboarding, providing support at UAT and PROD environment, production support.

  ● Setup and diagnose networking / sub netting in medium level offices.

  ● Migrated Microsoft SQL Server to Oracle database, wrote all the scripts for the migration.

  ● Wrote test cases in JUnit, mockito for unit testing of classes.

  ● Well experienced in dealing with the clients in fintech industry.

  ● Used Kafka for the asynchronous communications between two services.     

  ● Integration with Spring Security in Web application using OAUTH 2, Also, implemented Base 64, cipher text,      voltage encryptor to encrypt the message, and  JWE encryption for field level encryption.

  ● Consumed Web Services for transferring data between different applications.

  ● Involved in coding, maintaining, and deploying applications on a UNIX server

  ● Wrote MSSQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations.

  ● Built scripts using Ant to build the J2EE application.

  ● Used Eclipse 3.0 IDE for developing code modules in the development environment

  ● Performed connectivity with Oracle database using JDBC, hibernate.

  ● Implemented the logging mechanism using the Log4j framework. Developed RESTful API and used MVC, Spring boot and hosted all micro services through Spring boot





Environment: Java 1.8, Rally, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Oracle, Spring MVC, JMS Consumer, Unix Server, Maven, MSSQL, Restful Web Services, Bitbucket, MQ, Kafka, Microservices, Tomcat Server.





 AT&T, Dallas TX				                                                 		 Aug 2020 – Aug 2021

 Role: Java Full Stack Developer 



 Responsibilities:

Developing Single page application (SPA) using the latest technologies like Angular 5, Typescript, Bootstrap 4, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5. 

Writing the front-end look and appearance for the screens using Bootstrap, Ext JS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS and jQuery

Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.

Used Node.js as a Runtime environment.

Actively worked in Analysis, Design, Development, System Integration Testing, QA and User Acceptance Testing.

Designed and developed Microservices using REST framework and Spring Boot and used Bootstrap along with Angular5 in creating the Application.

Developed Micro Service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such as Hibernate, Spring Data JPA and messaging engines.  

Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.

Using Spring MVC framework to better control the presentation, business, structural and navigational aspects of the applications. 

Integration with Spring Security in Web application using OAUTH 2 with OpenID.

Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.

Used Lombok and Swagger frameworks and used Swagger hub to document all the generated and built REST API’s.

Designed and implemented a SQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data.

Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application configuration properties for different environments.

Extensively used Spring AOP to maintain the code clean and logic consistent and used point cuts to call other class methods according to advice structures.

Used Hibernate for Database Persistence to perform CRUD operation like insert, update, retrieve. 

Used Hibernate, object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data with SQL-based schema.

Also used Spring Cloud features like Eureka Server, Zuul Api Gateway, Ribbon Load Balancer, Hystrix and for tracing we used Sleuth and Zipkin.

Worked on different type of indexes based on different collections to get performance in Oracle Data Base.

Worked and created and w SQL store procedures.

Also used Mocha, Karma for UI testing and used Junit and Mockito for Back-end code testing

Used GIT and BITBUCKET as a Version Control System, created and cloned the central repository locally, created sub- branches, pulled any new changes, and then finally pushed their changes back to the central repository.

Used Unified Inventory Management system an Oracle product tool as a part of data storage.

Worked on Data Migration from PL/SQL 11 to Oracle 12C. Creating and replacing procedures to migrate old data into a new system for the database storage.

Used RabbitMQ setup to get a config file by performing an event bus.

Worked on Spring cloud features like Netflix Eureka Server, Zuul Api Gateway, Ribbon Load Balancer, Hystrix, Zipkin and Sleuth.

Used Jenkins as a part of CI/CD tool and used JFrog repository to store generated artifacts and deployed in Docker containers.



Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JIRA, Hibernate, JavaScript, Spring Boot, Angular, Spring MVC, JMS, JMeter, Jenkins, Ext JS, Ant, Maven, Docker, SQL, Restful Web Services, jQuery, GitHub, AWS, Kafka, Microservices, Selenium, Tomcat Server.



HMS, Irving, TX									May 2018 – July 2020

Role: Java Developer



Responsibilities:

Analysis of customer requisites and deploying the application in different phases of Agile Software Development and Scrum technology.    

Designed use cases for the application as per the business requirements.

Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages.

Developed user interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular 4 to simplify the complexities of the application.    

Used Design patterns such as Business Object (BO), Service locator, Session façade, Model View Controller, DAO and DTO. 

Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.

Designed and developed business components using Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Batch. Developed the persistence layer (DAL) and the presentation layer.

Developed RESTful API and used MVC, Spring boot and hosted all micro services through Spring boot.   

Implemented DAO using Hibernate Reverse Engineering, AOP and service layer using Spring, MVC design.    

Created Angular 4 controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend.    

Implementation of NoSQL database using MongoDB and application of Spring framework to establish connection between the Database and front-end.

Developed Java Server components using Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services technologies.    

Used MAVEN for build framework and Jenkins as build server for the project.	

Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, files that contain declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern. 

Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and WebLogic.    

Used Log4Jfor logging error/debug messages and managing them. 

Deployed the project in AWS cloud using EC2 instance.  

Implemented AWS services using EC2, RDS, EBS, Auto-Scaling groups

Implemented Micro Services Registration using Spring Boot and eliminated the use of J2EE containers.    

Used JIRA for Project Management, Bug Tracking and Issue Tracking

Worked on creating UML (Use Case diagrams, State diagrams, and Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object diagrams) using Rational Rose.

Environment: J2EE, Spring, JUnit, Log4j, JDBC, XML, UML, Web service (RESTful, WSDL, WADL, JAXB, JAX-WS, JAX-RS), Angular 4, Apache Tomcat, Maven, GIT, Jenkins.



AIG, Houston, TX                                                 				Feb 2017 – Apr 2018

Role:  Java Developer 



Responsibilities:    

Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams. 

Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology using Rally Agile Development Software.

Implemented Spring MVC architecture using Spring, JSP &Java beans to migrate from Struts Framework.    

Involved in development of service-based architecture utilizing open-source technologies like Hibernate ORM with JPA Annotations and Spring MVC Framework.    

Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS, JavaScript/JQuery.    

Used JavaScript, Angular2 and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and RESTful web service calls.    

Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  

Worked on migrating Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.    

Designed and developed RESTful APIs using Spring REST API.    

Migrated parts of existing applications into micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot and AWS.

Used Angular2 framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient in integrating with Restful services.    

Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.    

Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.   

The application was re-deployed by creating different microservices through API gateway.    

Spring Boot was used to create the microservices as it has an embedded apache tomcat server.    

Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle 12c database.    

Designed and developed database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle.

Responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries, also used JUnit for unit testing and Mockito for mock based testing.    

Used Git for Version Control.    

Used log4j for logging error/debug messages and managing them.

Environment: J2EE, Spring Boot, JUnit, Log4j, JDBC, XML, UML, Web service (RESTful, WSDL, WADL, JAXB, JAX-WS, JAX-RS), Angular, Apache Tomcat, Maven, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Spring Tool Suite.



